.TH GPO "1" "April 2013" "gpodder 3.5.1" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
gpo \- Text mode interface of gPodder
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gpo
[\fI--verbose|-v\fR]
[\fICOMMAND\fR] [\fIparams...\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
gpo is the text mode interface of gPodder. Run it without any arguments to
start the interactive shell (see below). Use "gpo help" to get a list of
supported commands.
.PP
gpo can be used to manage podcasts from the command line without having to
start gPodder. It can also be used to automate tasks such as downloading or
updating feeds.
.PP
The database and files are the same as used by \fIgpodder(1)\fR.

.SH INTERACTIVE SHELL MODE
.PP
If you run "gpo" without \fICOMMAND\fR it will enter its interactive shell
mode. From there, you can type commands directly. When readline is available,
this shell supports completion using <Tab>. Podcast feed URLs are also
completed for commands that take the URL of a podcast as argument.
.PP
Some commands (e.g. \fIsearch\fR and \fItoplist\fR) will provide a query in
interactive shell mode (to subscribe to podcasts). These queries will not be
shown when started directly from the command line.

.SH COMMAND PREFIXES
.PP
For all commands, you can use only the first few characters instead of the
full command, as long as the command is unique. If not, gpo will show you all
matching commands and the shortest prefix of each.
.PP
Please note that future additions to the command set could change the shortest
prefix of any given command, so usage of the full command in scripts is
recommended (e.g. use "gpo update" and not "gpo up" in scripts and cronjobs).
The short command prefixes are mostly useful for interactive usage.

.SH QUERYING USING EQL
.PP
Using the
.I query
command allows you to use the full range of Episode Query Language expressions
that gPodder supports. Combined with the
.I apply
command, this can be very powerful.
.PP
For example, you can mark all episodes that
are videos, not yet downloaded, smaller than 10 MB and released in the last 7
days as new like this (in the interactive shell mode):
.PP
.RS 4
.B query video and not downloaded and mb < 10 and since < 7
.PP
.B apply mark new
.RE
.PP
Similarly, you can mark all new episodes as old with a combination of:
.PP
.RS 4
.B query new
.PP
.B apply mark old
.RE
.PP
Delete all downloaded episodes that have been downloaded more than 15 days ago:
.PP
.RS 4
.B query downloaded and age > 15
.PP
.B apply rm
.RE
.PP
And finally, download all audio files that are shorter than 30 minutes and that
are not yet downloaded:
.PP
.RS 4
.B query audio and minutes < 30 not downloaded
.PP
.B apply fetch
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES

.PP
.B gpo
.RS 4
Enter interactive shell mode
.RE
.PP
.B gpo update && gpo download
.RS 4
Check for new episodes, then download all new episodes
.RE

.PP
.B gpo search linux outlaws
.RS 4
Search the directory for podcasts named "linux outlaws"
.RE

.PP
.B gpo youtube http://youtube.com/watch?v=oHg5SJYRHA0
.RS 4
Print download URL of a YouTube video to stdout
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
gpodder(1)

.SH BUGS
.PP
If you find bugs, don't keep them for yourself!
.PP
Report bugs and feature requests at \fIhttp://bugs.gpodder.org/\fR
